Let's talk about Indexes.
So again, I talk a lot about
queries being expensive.
Another one is you want
queries to be fast right?
So let's say you're doing like a pet
adoption website and you people ask for,
I wanna see all the dogs right?
If you have, a million pets in your pet
adoption database, that can be quite slow,
because it's gonna go read all of
the objects are all the documents in your
database, and it's going to filter for
all the ones that have type dog on it.
It'd be better, if we had that indexed, so
that the database can basically
take a shortcut instead of
having to look at every single
document in the database can say.
Just build me like a tree that
allows me to go search for
all of just the dogs in my database.
So this is called an Index.
And this actually exists in all of
the databases we talked about today,
except rattus.
So we'll be talking a lot
about indexes today.
So, let's say say db.pets.find((
name: "Fido" okay?
So I'm gonna just search for
all the pets named Fido in my database.
It's fine, it works ok, I only have
ten thousand items in my database,
which from I going to b it's not that
many used to handling millions and
perhaps even billions of records.
But let's do a dot, explain on this.
And we're gonna ask for
the execution stats.
So this is actually gonna pass
back to from Mongo and say,
here's how I'm going to find that.
So, it does what's called a execution or
a query planner,
you'll hear those terms
thrown around quite a bit.
So, the first thing it does is say,
all right,
here's the query that I'm looking for.
I'm looking for name,
where it's equal to Fido.
And then it has a winning plan.
Sometimes the database will try multiple
different strategies to try and
figure out okay, I can search this way,
or I can search this way, or
I can consider this way.
In this case,
there's only one way to find it.
It's gonna do what's called a call scan.
And this is your worst nightmare
right here call scan is like,
worst case scenario.
I'm going to look at literally
every item in this or
every document in this collection to
find all of your pet's name to find out,
this is not what you wanna see.
If this is a query that you run a lot,
you need to index this,
that you don't see Colescott if you run
this like once a day, that's fine, right?
Once a day,
you can take a performance hit.
It doesn't really matter, but if you're
running this 10 times a second, you,
need to index this yesterday.
Okay, so that this is the part that I want
to be looking at here is the winning plan.
And you can see here, the call scan is
exactly what you're trying to avoid.
So here are the execution stats.
This is actually gonna go through and
tell you what it did, how long it took.
And you can see here, this is, again,
we have 9,644 items in the collection and
it looked at all 9,644
items in the collection.
This is not what you wanna see.
So, how can we fix that?
Well, we're gonna do that
by creating an index.
So the first thing we're gonna do is,
we're gonna say db.pets.create
index name colon 1.
And what we're doing is we're
creating a simple index on name.
And that's it.
Now, something else I probably
need to throw out there.
Don't just log on to your server this is
actually a fairly heavy procedure to do.
So don't just do this in production.
Like this can cause downtime.
This can be very expensive.
Again, we're doing it for 9,600 and
some odd items in a collection.
Not that big a deal but 4 million,
this could take down your entire app.
All right, so now,
if we run that same query again
find Fido with execution stats.
Notice up here,
we're gonna see Stage : Fetch.
This is what we wanna see,
this is much faster, this is much better.
This is basically said like I
found an index that uses or
that I can use to find
whatever you're looking for.
It goes way faster.
So you can see here, it gives you a lot
more information of how this index works.
But keys examined trying to find
the right one to point you out.
So Doc's examined 964.
That's the one that you don't wanna see.
So total Doc's examined here 1070, right?
That's significantly better, but I also
think if I remember correctly dot count.
Sorry, not dot count.
If I say count here,
that's actually the correct answer.
That's how many dogs are actually,
or sorry.
That's how many pets
are actually named Fido.
So 10 70 is the bare minimum.
So, yeah, it went significantly faster
looked at significantly less documents.
And if you've taken my data science or
not my data science but
my algorithms class,
this actually built a tree in memory, so
that whenever you're doing these queries,
it's actually going in memory.
So it's not writing to disk.
And it's looking it's going through a tree
rather than looking at every single item
in the in the database.
So this should give us some
performance stats as well.
Again, I'm on a pretty beefy MacBook Pro.
How long did this take?
Just took two milliseconds.
LSC up here.
How long did this one take?
Four milliseconds so
not that huge a difference again,
considering not that many items and
in this collection and
also it's on my MacBook which
really isn't doing really.
Anything else right now, but even still
50% query increase not bad right?
We're not upset by that.
So at anytime is all you can
say db.pets.get indexes and
you can see here we have
one on name you will always
have one an ID is always
indexed just by default.
And yeah, that's how you do indexes.
So you can do compound indexes, so
let's say you're frequently querying by
both maybe age and pet at the same time.
You can actually make a compound
index that uses both of those things.
You kinda just have to understand the
shape of your data that it needs to be in.
And how you're gonna query it.
Normally I, kind of wait a little bit to
figure out what queries I wanna do, or
sorry, what indexes I wanna do and
kind of see how I'm using the database and
how the code is written.
And then I'll go make indexes to kind
of index those kind of hot code paths.
Because if you have an index
that's not doing anything,
then it's just taking up space and memory,
yeah, don't have useless indexes as well.
That's another good piece of advice,
because it's just waste space and
performance.
Let's talk about something else.
Let's talk about unique indexes.
So right now, in our database, you can
have in fact, here's a good example.
Cause I think I did this earlier.
Do these index find, index 10,000?
No, okay.
So I actually only have one
item of index one 10,000,
but this index should be unique, right?
No one should have the same index
in this particular collection.
So we want that to be unique.
Or maybe you can imagine, like maybe
you're doing a users collection and
you want the username to be unique, right?
So you put a unique constraint
on that particular field.
You can do that with unique indexes.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna say db.pets.create index.
And I'm going to index,
that's funny index referring
to this particular field
in our collection, right?
It's not nothing special,
but the word index.
And then all you have to do is you
add another thing here and say,
make sure it's unique.
Okay, so I went and
created a new index, it's on index.
So now, if I say db.let's say 1,
that query will go much faster,
cuz it's not gonna scan all of them.
It actually goes directly to
that particular thing, but
the other interesting thing is I say,
db.pets.insert(1) I try to
insert a index 10,000 like that.
It's gonna give me an error it's gonna say
right there duplicate error key, right?
So it's actually not going to let
me insert duplicate keys here.
That's what that unique
constraint allows me to do.
Whereas before it would have just happily
accepted that right another useful
thing about this is now index is quick is
indexed right the the index is indexed.
That's just kind of a necessary byproduct
of doing a unique constraint is it does
have to index that.